>> Woodruff: NORTH KOREA STEPPED
UP ITS RHETORIC TODAY.
ITS LEADER ORDERED HIS GENERALS
TO GET ROCKETS READY TO STRIKE
THE UNITED STATES.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Suarez: AND I'M RAY SUAREZ.
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" TONIGHT, WE
ASSESS THE ESCALATING TENSIONS
ON THE PENINSULA, COMING AFTER
THE U.S. STAGED MILITARY DRILLS
WITH SOUTH KOREA.
>> Woodruff: THEN, WE EXAMINE
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT'S
PROPOSED RULES TO LIMIT
POLLUTION FROM AUTOMOBILES,
LIKELY TO RESULT IN CLEANER AIR
AND MAYBE HIGHER PRICES.
>> Suarez: HARI SREENIVASAN
REPORTS ON THE MOUNTING BACKLOG
AT THE VETERANS ADMINISTRATION,
WHERE THE WAIT TIME TO RESOLVE
CLAIMS OFTEN TAKES MORE THAN A
YEAR.
>> WHY SHOULD YOU HAVE TO FIGHT?
WHY SHOULD YOU HAVE TO FIGHT FOR
YOUR BENEFITS?
I WENT TO WAR, I DID WHAT I HAD
TO DO.
>> Woodruff: JEFFREY BROWN TALKS
WITH AUTHOR MOHSIN HAMID ABOUT
HIS NEW NOVEL, A TALE OF LOVE
AND SUCCESS EXPLORING THE
PROMISE AND PERILS OF RISING
ASIA.
>> IF YOU LOOK AT A BOOKSHELF IN
PAKISTAN, OR REALLY ANYWHERE IN
ASIA, YOU'LL SEE SHELF AFTER
SHELF FULL OF, YOU KNOW, "HOW TO
BECOME SUCCESSFUL," "HOW TO
BUILD A SPREADSHEET" AND THE
NEWSPAPERS AND MAGAZINES ARE
FULL OF IT, TOO.
>> Suarez: AND MARK SHIELDS AND
DAVID BROOKS ANALYZE THE WEEK'S
NEWS.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
>> Suarez: THE TEMPERATURE KEPT
RISING ON THE KOREAN PENINSULA
TODAY, AT LEAST JUDGING FROM
PUBLIC PRONOUNCEMENTS.
THE COMMUNIST NORTH DECLARED ITS
MISSILE FORCES ARE READY TO
LAUNCH AT AMERICAN TARGETS.
FILLED PYONGYANG'S MAIN SQUARE
MORE THAN 100,000 NORTH KOREANS
TODAY, SHOUTING "DEATH TO THE
FILLED PYONGYANG'S MAIN SQUARE
U.S. IMPERIALISTS."
TODAY, SHOUTING "DEATH TO THE
THE MASS RALLY COINCIDED WITH A
U.S. IMPERIALISTS."
NEW THREAT.
THE MASS RALLY COINCIDED WITH A
STATE TELEVISION ANNOUNCED NORTH
NEW THREAT.
KOREAN LEADER KIM JONG UN HAS
STATE TELEVISION ANNOUNCED NORTH
DECIDED THE TIME HAS COME TO
KOREAN LEADER KIM JONG UN HAS
SETTLE ACCOUNTS WITH THE U.S.
DECIDED THE TIME HAS COME TO
>> (translated): HE HAS SIGNED
SETTLE ACCOUNTS WITH THE U.S.
THE PLAN ON TECHNICAL
>> (translated): HE HAS SIGNED
PREPARATIONS OF STRATEGIC
THE PLAN ON TECHNICAL
ROCKETS OF THE KOREAN PEOPLE'S
PREPARATIONS OF STRATEGIC
ARMY, ORDERING THEM TO BE ON
ROCKETS OF THE KOREAN PEOPLE'S
STANDBY FOR FIRE SO THAT THEY
ARMY, ORDERING THEM TO BE ON
ARE ABLE TO STRIKE AT ANY TIME
STANDBY FOR FIRE SO THAT THEY
THE U.S. MAINLAND AND ITS
ARE ABLE TO STRIKE AT ANY TIME
MILITARY BASES IN THE PACIFIC,
THE U.S. MAINLAND AND ITS
INCLUDING HAWAII AND GUAM, AND
MILITARY BASES IN THE PACIFIC,
THOSE IN SOUTH KOREA.
INCLUDING HAWAII AND GUAM, AND
>> Suarez: STATE MEDIA ALSO
THOSE IN SOUTH KOREA.
RELEASED PHOTOGRAPHS OF KIM AND
>> Suarez: STATE MEDIA ALSO
HIS SENIOR GENERALS DURING AN
RELEASED PHOTOGRAPHS OF KIM AND
EMERGENCY MEETING LATE LAST
HIS SENIOR GENERALS DURING AN
NIGHT.
EMERGENCY MEETING LATE LAST
THEY'RE SEEN LOOKING AT A MAP,
NIGHT.
PURPORTEDLY SHOWING U.S. CITIES
THEY'RE SEEN LOOKING AT A MAP,
THAT MIGHT BE TARGETED BY NORTH
PURPORTEDLY SHOWING U.S. CITIES
KOREAN MISSILES.
THAT MIGHT BE TARGETED BY NORTH
THE WHITE HOUSE RESPONDED
KOREAN MISSILES.
THROUGH A SPOKESMAN TRAVELING
THE WHITE HOUSE RESPONDED
WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA TODAY.
THROUGH A SPOKESMAN TRAVELING
HE SAID BELLICOSE RHETORIC ONLY
WITH PRESIDENT OBAMA TODAY.
DEEPENS NORTH KOREA'S ISOLATION.
HE SAID BELLICOSE RHETORIC ONLY
ON THURSDAY, A MORE FORCEFUL
DEEPENS NORTH KOREA'S ISOLATION.
DEMONSTRATION: A PAIR OF B-2
ON THURSDAY, A MORE FORCEFUL
STEALTH BOMBERS FLEW 6,500 MILES
DEMONSTRATION: A PAIR OF B-2
TO SOUTH KOREA AND BACK, AS PART
STEALTH BOMBERS FLEW 6,500 MILES
OF ONGOING JOINT MILITARY
TO SOUTH KOREA AND BACK, AS PART
EXERCISES BETWEEN THE TWO
OF ONGOING JOINT MILITARY
NATIONS.
EXERCISES BETWEEN THE TWO
THE CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT
NATIONS.
CHIEFS, GENERAL MARTIN DEMPSEY,
THE CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT
ADDRESSED THE FLIGHT DURING A
CHIEFS, GENERAL MARTIN DEMPSEY,
BRIEFING WITH DEFENSE SECRETARY
ADDRESSED THE FLIGHT DURING A
CHUCK HAGEL.
BRIEFING WITH DEFENSE SECRETARY
>> THE REACTION TO THE B2 THAT
CHUCK HAGEL.
WE'RE MOST CONCERNED ABOUT IS
>> THE REACTION TO THE B2 THAT
NOT NECESSARILY THE REACTION IT
WE'RE MOST CONCERNED ABOUT IS
MIGHT ELICIT IN NORTH KOREA, BUT
NOT NECESSARILY THE REACTION IT
RATHER AMONG OUR JAPANESE AND
MIGHT ELICIT IN NORTH KOREA, BUT
KOREAN ALLIES.
RATHER AMONG OUR JAPANESE AND
YOU KNOW THOSE EXERCISES ARE
KOREAN ALLIES.
MOSTLY TO ASSURE OUR ALLIES THAT
YOU KNOW THOSE EXERCISES ARE
THEY CAN COUNT ON US TO BE
MOSTLY TO ASSURE OUR ALLIES THAT
PREPARED TO AND TO HELP THEM
THEY CAN COUNT ON US TO BE
DETER CONFLICT.
PREPARED TO AND TO HELP THEM
>> Suarez: ALL OF THIS BEGAN
DETER CONFLICT.
WITH NORTH KOREA'S LATEST
>> Suarez: ALL OF THIS BEGAN
NUCLEAR TEST IN FEBRUARY.
WITH NORTH KOREA'S LATEST
THAT PROMPTED THE U.N. NATIONS
NUCLEAR TEST IN FEBRUARY.
SECURITY COUNCIL TO IMPOSE ITS
THAT PROMPTED THE U.N. NATIONS
LATEST ROUND OF SANCTIONS
SECURITY COUNCIL TO IMPOSE ITS
AGAINST THE NORTH.
LATEST ROUND OF SANCTIONS
AND IN TURN, THE NORTH BEGAN A
AGAINST THE NORTH.
BARRAGE OF THREATS ANOTHED R
AND IN TURN, THE NORTH BEGAN A
STEPS, FROM CANCELING THE
BARRAGE OF THREATS ANOTHED R
ARMISTICE THAT ENDED THE KOREAN
STEPS, FROM CANCELING THE
WAR TO CUTTING OFF VARIOUS HOT
ARMISTICE THAT ENDED THE KOREAN
LINES TO THE SOUTH.
WAR TO CUTTING OFF VARIOUS HOT
STILL, NORTH KOREA'S CLOSEST
LINES TO THE SOUTH.
ALLY, CHINA, CALLED TODAY FOR
STILL, NORTH KOREA'S CLOSEST
RESTRAINT.
ALLY, CHINA, CALLED TODAY FOR
>> (translated): UPHOLDING THE
RESTRAINT.
PEACE AND STABILITY OF THE
>> (translated): UPHOLDING THE
KOREAN PENINSULA AS WELL AS
PEACE AND STABILITY OF THE
NORTHEAST ASIA SERVES THE COMMON
KOREAN PENINSULA AS WELL AS
INTERESTS OF ALL PARTIES AND
NORTHEAST ASIA SERVES THE COMMON
IT'S ALSO THEIR COMMON
INTERESTS OF ALL PARTIES AND
RESPONSIBILITY.
IT'S ALSO THEIR COMMON
WE HOPE THAT RELEVANT PARTIES
RESPONSIBILITY.
WILL WORK TOGETHER IN PUSHING
WE HOPE THAT RELEVANT PARTIES
FOR A TURNAROUND OF THE TENSE
WILL WORK TOGETHER IN PUSHING
SITUATION.
FOR A TURNAROUND OF THE TENSE
>> Suarez: AND FOR ALL THE WAR
SITUATION.
TALK, SOME ECONOMIC COOPERATION
>> Suarez: AND FOR ALL THE WAR
HAS CONTINUED BETWEEN NORTH AND
TALK, SOME ECONOMIC COOPERATION
SOUTH KOREA.
HAS CONTINUED BETWEEN NORTH AND
WORKERS AND VEHICLES FROM THE
SOUTH KOREA.
SOUTH ARE STILL BEING ALLOWED TO
WORKERS AND VEHICLES FROM THE
TRAVEL TO A SHARED INDUSTRIAL
SOUTH ARE STILL BEING ALLOWED TO
PARK THAT GENERATES MILLIONS OF
TRAVEL TO A SHARED INDUSTRIAL
DOLLARS FOR THE NORTH.
PARK THAT GENERATES MILLIONS OF
I'M JOINED BY JOEL WIT.
DOLLARS FOR THE NORTH.
DURING HIS 15-YEAR CAREER AT THE
I'M JOINED BY JOEL WIT.
STATE DEPARTMENT, HE FOCUSED ON
DURING HIS 15-YEAR CAREER AT THE
NORTH KOREA.
STATE DEPARTMENT, HE FOCUSED ON
HE'S NOW A VISITING SCHOLAR AT
NORTH KOREA.
THE U.S. KOREA INSTITUTE AT THE
HE'S NOW A VISITING SCHOLAR AT
JOHNS HOPKINS SCHOOL OF ADVANCED
THE U.S. KOREA INSTITUTE AT THE
INTERNATIONAL STUDIES.
JOHNS HOPKINS SCHOOL OF ADVANCED
HE ALSO IS THE FOUNDER AND
INTERNATIONAL STUDIES.
CO-EDITOR OF 38-NORTH, A WEBSITE
HE ALSO IS THE FOUNDER AND
DEVOTED TO NORTH KOREA ANALYSIS.
CO-EDITOR OF 38-NORTH, A WEBSITE
AND SUNG-YOON LEE IS AN
DEVOTED TO NORTH KOREA ANALYSIS.
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF
AND SUNG-YOON LEE IS AN
INTERNATIONAL POLITICS AT TUFTS
ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF
UNIVERSITY'S FLETCHER SCHOOL.
INTERNATIONAL POLITICS AT TUFTS
JOEL WIT, ARE WE CLOSER TO
UNIVERSITY'S FLETCHER SCHOOL.
WAR TODAY THAN WE WERE EVEN
JOEL WIT, ARE WE CLOSER TO
JUST A WEEK AGO?
A REAL SHOOTING WAR IN
NORTHEAST ASIA?
>> I THINK THIS IS AN
EXTREMELY SERIOUS SITUATION.
AND I WOULD SAY THAT WE ARE
ONE STEP AWAY FROM A SECOND
KOREAN WAR.
AND I SAY THAT BECAUSE IN
THIS KIND OF TENSE SITUATION,
THE DANGER OF MISCALCULATION
OR ACCIDENTAL CONFLICT IS
VERY HIGH.
AND SO THIS IS A VERY
DANGEROUS SITUATION.
AND WE NEED TO BE VERY
CAREFUL SZ PROFESSOR LEE, DO
AGREE?
ARE WE REALLY IN MORE
JEOPARDY THAN WE WERE JUST A
FEW WEEKS AGO?
>> WELL, WE HAVE SEEN A
CRESCENDO OF-- BARRAGE.
I DON'T THINK WE ARE ON THE
BRINK OF WAR.
BECAUSE WE KNOW THE NORTH
KOREAN REGIME HARBORS NO
SUICIDAL IMPULSES.
I DON'T NECESSARILY WARRANT
TO PAINT THE NORTH KOREAN
REG ONLY AS ALL KNOWING
BRILLIANT OMNIPOTENT
BRILLIANT STRATEGIST.
THERE IS THE POSSIBILITY OF
MISCALCULATION BUT WE HAVE
SEEN NORTH KOREA RESORT TO
PERIODIC, DEADLY BUT THERE
ARE ATTACKS AGAINST THE
SOUTH AND THE UNITED STATES
FORCES IN SOUTH KOREA EVER O
THE PAST 60 YEARS.
AND I THINK THE NORTH KOREAN
REGIME VIEWS THIS PERIOD,
2013, AS A PARTICULARLY
APPEASEMENT-PRONE TIME.
AND HENCE, IT'S IN NORTH
KOREA'S INTEREST TO RAISE
THE STAKES, PAINT WASHINGTON
AND SEOUL INTO A CORNER WITH
A VIEW TOWARDS RECEIVING
MORE ECONOMIC CONCESSIONS IN
THE FUTURE SZ WELL,
PROFESSOR, HAVING SAID THAT,
WHEN ANY COUNTRY, NORTH
KOREA OR ANY COUNTRY ON THE
PLANET MAKES THREATS OF THE
KIND THAT WERE MADE IN THE
PAST 24 HOURS, DOES THE
UNITED STATES HAVE TO TAKE
THEM SERIOUS?
>> THIS IS NORTH KOREA'S
PREFERRED STRATEGY OF
GRADUATED ESCALATION.
ITS PSYCHOLOGICAL WARFARE.
AND THE U.S. AND THE ROK,
THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA, THE
FORMER NAME FOR SOUTH KOREA
HAVE ALSO BEEN ENGAGING IN
PSYCHOLOGICAL WARFARE OF
THEIR OWN.
WE SHOULD TAKE THE NORTH
KOREAN THREAT SERIOUSLY
BECAUSE THERE'S A HIGH
LIKELIHOOD THAT NORTH KOREA
WILL, ONCE AGAIN, RESORT TO
A DEADLY ATTACK AGAINST
SOUTH KOREA.
NORTH KOREA HAS SHOWN A
PROCLIVITY TO LAUNCH SUCH
ATTACKS AND PROVOCATIVE ACTS
ON A MAJOR HOLIDAY.
SO PERHAPS EVEN THIS EASTER
SUNDAY IS AN OM TUNE TIME
FOR ANOTHER
PROVE-- OPPORTUNE TIME FOR
PROVOCATION.
RZ JOEL WIT, THEY ARE SAID
TO SHOW HONOLULU, WASHINGTON
IT KRFERMENTS-- IT C, LOS
ANGELES, DO WE HAVE A VERY
GOOD IDEA OF WHAT NORTH
KOREA IS CAPABLE OF AND WHAT
IT'S NOT?
>> YES, I THINK WE HAVE AN
EXCELLENT IDEA.
AND WE HAVE THAT BECAUSE WE
VE OHABSERVED THEIR MISSILE
TEST.
AND WE KNOW HOW FAR THOSE
MISSILES CAN GO EVEN IF THEY
WORK.
AND THE FACT IS, THEY
HAVEN'T REALLY WORKED VERY
WELL.
SO THEY CAN'T REALLY REACH
THE CONTINENTAL UNITED
STATES.
SECONDLY, I WANT TO RETURN
TO THIS POINT ABOUT WHETHER
WE'RE CLOSE TO A WAR OR NOT.
AND I WOULD SAY THAT THE
PROBLEM HERE IS, AND THE
PROFESSOR HAS EVEN PREDICTED
WHEN A PROVOCATION MIGHT
HAPPEN.
THE PROBLEM IS THAT IF NORTH
KOREA LAUNCHES A PROVOCATION,
THE UNITED STATES AND SOUTH
KOREA, UNLIKE IN THE PAST,
ARE LIKELY TO RESPOND.
AND NORTH KOREA IS NOT GOING
TO ROLL OVER AND PLAY DEAD,
CONTRARY TO WHAT A NUMBER OF
CONSERVATIVES ARE SAYING SZ
BUT DO YOU AGREE WITH THE
PROFESSOR'S CONCLUSION THAT
THE COUNTRIES THAT'S IN REAL
JEOPARDY, NOT THE UNITED
STATES IN THESE THREATS, BUT
SOUTH KOREA.
>> SHUTLY, SOUTH KOREA IS IN
GREAT JEOPARDY HERE.
AND AS A CLOSE ALLY OF THE
UNITED STATES, THAT'S VERY
IMPORTANT TO US.
AND WE ALSO HAVE TO REMEMBER
WE HAVE 28,000 TROOPS ON THE
PENINSULA.
AND ARE COMMITTED TO SOUTH
KOREA'S DEFENSE.
SO IF THERE IS ANOTHER
KOREAN WAR, IT'S GOING TO
INVOLVE THOUSANDS, TENS OF
THOUSANDS, MAYBE HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF AMERICAN TROOPS.
RZ SZ PROFESSOR, NATIONS
AROUND THE WORLD HAVE
TOOLBOXES, VARIOUS MIXTURES
OF THREATS, PERSUASIONS,
INDUCEMENT, THAT IS PART OF
HOW DIPLOMACY GETS CARRIED
ON.
ARE THE RULES DIFFERENT FOR
DEALING WITH NORTH KOREA
THAN ALMOST ANY OTHER
COUNTRY ON EARTH?
>> WELL, IN THE CASE OF
NORTH KOREA, WHEN YOU
CONSIDER TEACHING FEDERAL
RELATIONS WITH OTHER STATES
AND THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY AT LARGE, FEDERAL
RELATION FOR NORTH KOREA
MEANS WHAT WE HAVE RIGHT
NOW.
CREATING A NEAR CRISIS
SITUATION WITH A VIEW
TOWARDS RETURNING TO
NEGOTIATIONS AND OVER THE
PAST 20 YEARS, OF NUCLEAR
DIPLOMACY, THAT HAS ALWAYS
MEANT RETURNING TO TALKS
WITH BIG BRANDISHMENT,
BIGGER REWARDS IN TOE.
SO YES, WE HAVE DEALT WITH
NORTH KOREA IN A WAY THAT
HAS NOT BEEN A SPECTACULAR
SUCCESS.
IT'S TIME TO PUT SOME REAL
STICK IN THAT PROVERBIAL
CAROT RAND STICK APPROACH.
AND I WOULD SAY IT HAS BEEN
ALL BRANDISHMENT AND
CONCESSION SO FAR.
>> JOEL WIT.
>> I HAVE EXPERIENCE
ACTUALLY WORKING WITH NORTH
KOREANS.
I SPENT 15 YEARS IN THE
STATE DEPARTMENT WORKING
WITH THEM.
AND I CAN SAY THAT IT'S NOT
A RECORD OF FAILURE.
IN FACT, THE AGREEMENT WE
REACHED IN 1994 STOPPED
NORTH KOREA FROM BUILDING AS
MANY AS 100 NUCLEAR WEAPONS
BY 2000.
SO THAT AGREEMENT WORKED.
THERE HAVE BEEN OTHER
AGREEMENTS THAT HAVEN'T
WORKED SO WELL.
IT'S BEEN A VERY MIXED
RECORD.
AND I AGREE WITH THE
PROFESSOR THAT WE NEED TO
GET TOUGH WITH THE NORTH
KOREANS.
BUT GETTING TOUGH IN AND OF
ITSELF IS NOT A POLICY.
YOU NEED TO USE DIPLOMACY
TOO TO FIND ESCAPE ROUTES
FOR BOTH PARTIES.
DIPLOMACY DO ANY OF THE
STANDARD TOOLS OF A DIPLOMAT,
WHEN DEALING WITH ANOTHER
COUNTRY, WORK WITH THIS
COUNTRY?
>> THEY DO WORK WITHOUT.
I WAS PART OF AN AGREEMENT
AS I SAID IN 1994 THAT
WORKED VERY WELL FOR EIGHT
YEARS.
MOST PEOPLE DON'T KNOW THAT
IN THE LATE 2000s THERE WAS
ANOTHER AGREEMENT WITH NORTH
KOREA, A MORATORIUM ON ITS
LONG-RANGE MISSILE TESTS
THAT LASTED SEVEN YEARS.
IT WORKED VERY WELL.
SO THE RECORD IS NOT AN
UNBLEMISHED RECORD OF
FAILURE.
IT'S A RECORD OF MIXED
SUCCESS AND MIXED FAILURE.
AND SO THAT MEANS WE STILL
NEED TO CONTINUE TO TRY TO
WORK ON A DIPLOMATIC TRACK.
>> PROFESSOR QUICKLY, BEFORE
WE GO, WHEN STATEMENTS LIKE
THE KIND THAT COME OUT OF
PYONGYANG IN THE LAST COUPLE
OF DAYS ARE ISSUED, IS THAT
PARANOIA AS GESTURE, OR IS
THERE A REAL BELIEF AMONG
THE LEADING CADRE THERE
THAT, IN FACT, THE UNITED
STATES DOES WANT TO TAKE
OVER, STEAMROLL, EM OL ATE
THIS COUNTRY?
-- EMOLATE THIS COUNTRY.
>> IT'S POSTURING.
I DON'T THINK THE NORTH
KOREAN REGIME BELIEVES THAT
THE U.S. IS ON THE VERGE OF
ATTACKING NORTH KOREA.
THAT IS NOT IN THE BEST
INTEREST OF THE UNITED
STATES.
WE TEND TO TAKE A
PATRONIZING VIEW OF THE
NORTH KOREAN REGIME BECAUSE
THEY ARE SO BIZARRE AND
UNUSUAL IN SO MANY WAYS.
BUT THEY ARE QUITE RATIONAL,
CAREFUL AND
SELF-PRESERVATION IS OF THE
UTMOST PRIORITY FOR THE
REGIME.
I DON'T HAVE ANY EXPERIENCE
WORKING IN GOVERNMENT OR
DEALING WITH NORTH KOREA.
BUT WHAT I DO KNOW IS THAT
THE CLINTON ADMINISTRATION
PAID NORTH KOREA ALMOST $200
MILLION WORTH OF FOOD AID
FOR THE EMPTY PRIVILEGE OF
INSPECTING AN EMPTY CAVE IN
THE AFTERMATH OF NORTH KOREA
FIRING A LONG-RANGE MISSILE
OVER JAPAN ON AUGUST 31st,
1998.
THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION HAS
SIMILAR FAILED RECORD IN
DEALING WITHRT
IT REMOVED NORTH KOREA FROM
THE STATE-SPONSORED
TERRORISM LIST IN OCTOBER OF
2008.
RESUMED FOOD AID, NEGOTIATED
WITH NORTH KOREA AGAIN.
NORTH KOREA BLEW UP THE
TIRES OF A COOLING TIRE IF
HE MAIN FACILITY AND
CONTINUED TO ENRICH URANIUM QUIT
RECORD IS AN ACTUAL RECORD,
OF THINGS THAT REALLY
HAPPENED.
>> YOU KNOW, I DISAGREE WITH
THAT CHARACTERIZATION.
AND I GO BACK TO THE FACT
THAT WHEN I WAS IN THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT LOOKING AT
INTELLIGENCE ESTIMATES IN
THE EARLY 1990s, WE WERE
LOOKING AT A PROGRAM THAT
WAS ENORMOUS.
AND BY THE BUSH
ADMINISTRATION WE HAD TURNED
THAT OFF, AND THE NORTH
KOREANS HAD MOVED TO DEVELOP
ANOTHER KIND OF NUCLEAR
WEAPON.
>> JOEL WIT, PROFESSOR LEE,
GENTLEMEN, THANK YOU BOTH.
>THAN> K YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE "NEWSHOUR": NEW RULES FOR
AUTO EMISSIONS; LONG WAIT TIMES
AT THE VETERANS ADMINISTRATION;
ONE MAN'S JOURNEY FROM POOR BOY
TO CORPORATE TYCOON.
PLUS, SHIELDS AND BROOKS.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
A GRAND JURY IN ATLANTA
TODAY INDICTED THE CITY'S
FORMER SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENT
BEVERLY HALL IN A CHEATING
SCANDAL.
HALL AND 34 OTHER EDUCATORS
WERE CHARGED WITH FIXING
STANDARDIZED TEST OUTCOMES
TO SHOW ARTIFICIALLY HIGH
SCORES.
A STATE INVESTIGATION IN
2011 FOUND NEARLY 180
EDUCATORS TOOK PART IN THE
CHEATING.
HALL RESIGNED DAYS BEFORE
THE REPORT.
CHRISTIANS
CHRISTIANS AROUND THE WORLD
MARKED GOOD FRIDAY TODAY, AS
THEY READIED FOR EASTER SUNDAY.
FROM PILGRIMS TO THE POPE,
BELIEVERS TOOK PART IN SERVICES
AND CEREMONIES TO COMMEMORATE
THE CRUCIFIXION OF JESUS.
IN JERUSALEM'S OLD CITY,
THOUSANDS OF CHRISTIAN PILGRIMS
RETRACED THE WAY OF SUFFERING--
BELIEVED TO BE THE ROUTE JESUS
TOOK TO HIS CRUCIFIXION.
AN ALABAMA PRIEST PLAYED THE
ROLE OF CHRIST, FLANKED BY MEN
DRESSED AS ROMAN SOLDIERS.
OTHERS ALSO CARRIED WOODEN
CROSSES AS PART OF THE
PROCESSION.
IN THE WEST BANK, PALESTINIAN
CHRISTIANS USED AN ALTERNATIVE
ROUTE, AFTER ISRAELI SECURITY
BLOCKED THEIR ENTRY TO
JERUSALEM.
>> WHAT OUR PEOPLE ARE DOING
TODAY, THEY ARE WALKING THE REAL
VIA DOLOROSA, THE ONE WE HAVE
TODAY BETWEEN TWO SETTLEMENTS,
AROUND THE WALL, AROUND
CHECKPOINTS.
THEY ARE ALSO DEMONSTRATING
BECAUSE THEY DON'T HAVE THE
RIGHT TO GET TO JERUSALEM, A FEW
>> Sreenivasan: AT THE VATICAN,
POPE FRANCIS PRESIDED OVER HIS
FIRST GOOD FRIDAY SINCE BEING
NAMED PONTIFF EARLIER THIS
MONTH.
AND ELSEWHERE, THOUSANDS
GATHERED IN GERMANY FOR A MOCK
CRUCIFIXION.
>> (translated): EASTER IS THE
MOST IMPORTANT HOLIDAY FOR THE
CATHOLICS AND IT WAS VERY
AUTHENTIC WHAT WAS SHOWN HERE.
MAYBE IT MAKES PEOPLE A LITTLE
MORE ATTACHED TO RELIGION.
>> Sreenivasan: THE RE-ENACTMENT
WERE FOR REAL IN THE NORTHERN
PHILIPPINES, WHERE SOME TWO
DOZEN DEVOTEES WERE NAILED TO
CROSSES AGAIN THIS YEAR.
HOLY WEEK-- FOR ROMAN CATHOLICS
AND PROTESTANTS-- CONCLUDES THIS
WEEKEND, WITH EASTER SUNDAY.
ORTHODOX CHRISTIANS WILL MARK
EASTER IN MAY.
IN IRAQ, A SERIES OF CAR
BOMBINGS ROCKED SHIITE MOSQUES
TODAY, KILLING AT LEAST 23
PEOPLE AND WOUNDING DOZENS.
FOUR OF THE ATTACKS WERE IN THE
CAPITAL, BAGHDAD, AND ONE TOOK
PLACE IN THE NORTHERN CITY OF
KIRKUK.
THEY STRUCK AS WORSHIPPERS LEFT
FRIDAY PRAYERS.
THE BOMBINGS BORE THE HALLMARKS
OF AL-QAEDA IN IRAQ, BUT NO ONE
CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY.
PROSECUTORS IN COLORADO ARE
REFUSING TO LET JAMES HOLMES
PLEAD GUILTY IN THE AURORA MOVIE
THEATER SHOOTINGS LAST SUMMER.
HOLMES MADE THE OFFER THIS WEEK,
AND AGREED TO ACCEPT LIFE IN
PRISON TO AVOID THE DEATH
PENALTY.
BUT PROSECUTORS SAID THURSDAY
THERE'S NO DEAL BECAUSE THE
DEFENSE HAS REFUSED TO HAND OVER
KEY INFORMATION.
HOLMES IS ACCUSED OF KILLING 12
PEOPLE AND WOUNDING UP TO 70 IN
THE JULY 20th SHOOTINGS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA PUSHED PLANS
TODAY TO ATTRACT PRIVATE FUNDS
FOR REBUILDING ROADS, BRIDGES
AND OTHER INFRASTRUCTURE.
HE SAID IT WOULD HELP CREATE
CONSTRUCTION JOBS.
THE PRESIDENT FLEW TO THE PORT
OF MIAMI, UNDERGOING $2 BILLION
IN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE UPGRADES.
>> WE STILL HAVE ALL KINDS OF
WE STILL HAVE TOO MANY PORTS
THAT AREN'T EQUIPPED FOR TODAY'S
WORLD COMMERCE, WE'VE STILL GOT
TOO MANY RAIL LINES THAT ARE TOO
SLOW AND CLOGGED UP.
WE'VE STILL GOT TOO MANY ROADS
THAT ARE IN DISREPAIR, TOO MANY
BRIDGES THAT ARE UNSAFE, WE
DON'T HAVE TO ACCEPT THAT FOR
AMERICA.
WE CAN DO BETTER.
WE CAN BUILD BETTER.
>> Sreenivasan: PUBLIC-PRIVATE
PARTNERSHIPS WERE A KEY PART OF
THE PRIDENEST'S ECONOMIC AGENDA
IN HIS STATE OF THE UNION
ADDRESS LAST MONTH.
REPUBLICAN CONGRESSMAN DON YOUNG
OF ALASKA DREW A REBUKE TODAY
FOR REFERRING TO HISPANIC
WORKERS WITH A RACIAL SLUR.
IN AN INTERVIEW YESTERDAY, YOUNG
SAID HIS FATHER ONCE EMPLOYED,
QUOTE, "50 TO 60 WEACKSTB" ON
HIS CALIFORNIA FARM.
LATER, HE SAID HE MEANT NO
DISRESPECT.
TODAY, HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN
BOEHNER DEMANDED AN APOLOGY.
HE CALLED YOUNG'S REMARKS
"OFFENSIVE AND BENEATH THE
DIGNITY OF THE OFFICE HE HOLDS."
YOUNG IS 79, AND NOW IN HIS 21st
TERM AS ALASKA'S LONE
CONGRESSMAN.
THERE WAS GOOD NEWS TODAY ON
FORMER SOUTH AFRICAN PRESIDENT
NELSON MANDELA.
DOCTORS IN PRETORIA REPORTED HE
IS MAKING PROGRESS AND IS IN
GOOD SPIRITS.
MANDELA IS 94 YEARS OLD.
HE WAS TAKEN TO THE HOSPITAL
LATE DNESWEDAY NIGHT FOR A LUNG
INFECTION-- HIS THIRD
HOSPITALIZATION IN FOUR MONTHS.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JUDY.
>> Woodruff: AND WE TURN TO THE
E.P.A.'S NEW REGULATIONS
REQUIRING CLEANER GASOLINE.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
ANNOUNCED THE PROPOSED CHANGES
TODAY:
THEY WOULD REQUIRE TWO-THIRDS
LESS SULFUR IN GASOLINE AND A
REDUCTION IN OTHER EMISSIONS
BEGINNING IN 2017.
THEY ALSO WOULD SET TIGHTER
POLLUTION LIMITS FOR NEW
VEHICLES THEMSELVES AT THE SAME
TIME.
THE E.P.A. SAYS IT WOULD REDUCE
PREMATURE DEATHS AND IMPROVE
PUBLIC HEALTH FOR A MINIMAL
COST.
BUT OPPONENTS SAY IT COULD HIT
CONSUMERS AT THE PUMP BY ADDING
AS MUCH AS NINE CENTS A GALLON.
JULIET EILPERIN BROKE THIS STORY
FOR THE "WASHINGTON POST" AND
SHE JOINS ME NOW.
WELCOME TO THE
NEWSHOUR.
>> THANKS SO MUCH.
>> SO WHY IS THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION DOING THIS,
PUTTING THESE PROPOSALS OUT
THERE?
>> THERE ARE A COUPLE OF
REASONS.
ONE IS THE FACT THAT THEY
ARE REQUIRING VEHICLES TO BE
CLEANER IN THE YEARS AHEAD.
THEY'VE BASICALLY REDUCED
GREENHOUSE-GAS EMISSIONS
FROM THESE VEHICLES.
AND SO YOU WILL SEE BETWEEN
2016 AND 2025, THE VEHICLES
ARE GOING TO BECOME MUCH
MORE EFFICIENT, GET MORE
PILES -- MILES PER GALLON.
SO ONE OF THE THINGS
AUTOMAKERS ARE ASKING FOR IS
FOR CLEANER FUELS BECAUSE
THE SULFUR IN GASOLINE
REALLY AFFECTS THE CATALYTIC
CONVERTER AND MAKES IT LESS
EFFICIENT, RESULTS IN MORE
TAILPIPE EMISSIONS.
SO THEY ACTUALLY HAVE AN
INCENTIVE TO HAVE CLEANER
FUEL.
>> SO I WAS GOING TO SAY, IT
IS INTERESTING WHO IS IN
FAVOR OF THIS, IT IS NOT
JUST THE ENVIRONMENTAL
ADVOCATES, IT'S THE CAR
MANUFACTURERS.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THE CAR MANUFACTURERS WHO
ALREADY BASICALLY HAVE TO
COMPLY WITH THESE RULES IN
CALIFORNIA, WHICH IS A HUGE
PART OF THE U.S. MARKET,
HAVE ASKED FOR UNIFORMITY.
AND SO THEY WERE ACTUALLY IN
THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT OF
BUDGET JUST THIS MONTH
ASKING FOR THESE RULES TO
COME THROUGH.
AND SO THAT'S ONE OF THE
REASONS WHY THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION WAS
COMFORTABLE MOVING AHEAD
WITH THIS.
>> NOW ON THE OTHER SIDE IS
THE OIL & GAS INDUSTRY.
AND WHAT IS THE ARGUMENT
THEY'RE MAKING?
>> THEY'RE ARGUMENT IS THAT
OIL REFINERIES IN THE UNITED
STATES, WHICH AREN'T QUITE
AS PROFITABLE AS SAY THE BIG
OIL COMPANIES, WILL TAKE A
HIT BECAUSE IT WILL BE
EXPENSIVE TO REDUCE THE
SULFUR IN THEIR EMISSIONS.
THEY'VE ALREADY REDUCED IT
90% SINCE 2004 BECAUSE OF
FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
AND THEY'RE SAYING IT WILL
BOTH BE COSTLY FOR THEM TO
DO THIS, AND ALSO IN FACT T
WILL REQUIRE MORE ENERGY
WHICH WILL INCREASE THEIR
CARBON OUTPUT.
>> BUT THE ADMINISTRATION IS
DISPUTING THAT.
SO WHAT IS THE
ADMINISTRATION BASING THEIR
ARGUMENT?
>> THE ADMINISTRATION ASK
SAYING THAT THIS WILL
ADDRESS THAN A PENNY A
GALLON TO ANY GALLON OF
GASOLINE.
AND THEY SAY THAT FIRST OF
ALL THE OIL INDUSTRY IS
INFLATING THEIR STATISTICS.
THEY'VE DONE A SURVEY OF
REFINERIES AND LOOKED AT
WHAT KIND OF MODIFICATIONS,
THAT ONLY A TINY FRACTION OF
THE ROUGHLY 140 REFINERIES
IN THE COUNTRY WILL HAVE TO
DO A MAJOR OVERHALL.
AND ALSO THEY ALLOWED FOR
FLEXIBILITY IN THE PROPOSAL,
SO THAT THE SMALLEST
REFINERIES AND THE ONES THAT
WILL TAKE THE BIGGEST HIT
WILL HAVE, YOU KNOW, AN
EASIER TRANSITION.
>> BUT THE INDUSTRY, THE OIL
& GAS INDUSTRY IS PUSHING
BACK?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THEY'RE SAYING THAT, YOU
KNOW, ON AVERAGE IT WILL AT
LEAST BE 2 CENTS PER GALLON
AND IN SOME INSTANCES IT'S
GOING TO BE AS MUCH AS 9
CENTS BECAUSE THEY ESTIMATE
IT WILL COST $10 BILLION TO
DO THE UPGRADES THEY WILL
NEED.
>> AND IT IS MY
UNDERSTANDING ALSO THE
ADMINISTRATION IS SAYING
THAT THIS WILL SAVE MONEY IN
TERMS OF PUBLIC-HEALTH COSTS.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
WHEN YOU DO THE MATH, WHAT
THEY ARE SAYING IS BECAUSE
THESE TAILPIPE EMISSIONS,
NITROGEN OXIDE, SOOT, THINGS
LIKE THAT, VOLATILE ORGANIC
COMPOUNDS, THOSE CAN
CONTRIBUTE BOTH TO SMOG AND
IN THE CASE OF SOOT, ALSO TO
HEART AND LUNG DISEASE.
SO OVERALL THEY'RE SAYING
THAT BY 2013,-- 2030 THE
BENEFITS WILL BE BETWEEN 8
AND $23 BILLION OUTWEIGHING
THE COST OF COMPLIANCE.
>> AND JUST TO CLARIFY,
JULIET, THE ARGUMENT HERE IS
THAT IT'S NOT THAT THE
SULFUR ITSELF IN GASOLINE IS
THE PROBLEM, IT'S WHAT IT
DOES TO THE CATALYTIC
CONVERTER, THE EMISSION
DEVICE.
>> THAT'S WHAT IS VERY
INTERESTING.
BASICALLY THE MORE SULFUR
YOU HAVE, THE LESS EFFECTIVE
THE CATALYTIC CONVERTER IS
SO AS A RESULT YOU HAVE
GREATER TAILPIPE EMISSIONS
AND IT IS THE EMISSION, THE
VOLATILE ORGANIC COMPOUNDS,
NITROGEN OXIDE, CARBON
MONOXIDE AND SOOT IS WHAT
AFFECTS THE AIR WE BREATHE
AND WHAT IT DOES TO HEART
AND LUNGS.
>> LET'S BROADEN THIS OUT
BECAUSE AT THE SAME TIME THE
ADMINISTRATION ISSUED THESE
PROPOSALS TODAY, MEANWHILE
EVERYBODY IS OUT THERE
WAITING FOR TWO OTHER SETS
OF, I GUESS, REGULATIONS OR
PROPOSALS FROM THE
ADMINISTRATION.
ONE HAS TO DO WITH THE
KEYSTONE OIL PIPELINE.
THE OTHER ONE IS THE
GREENHOUSE-GAS EMISSIONS FOR
POWER PLANTS.
>> RIGHT.
>> HOW DOES THIS FACTOR IN
TO THOSE SETS OF REGULATIONS
WHICH WE'RE WAITING TO HEAR
NOW?
>> RIGHT.
I THINK IT'S ALL PART OF THE
BROADER OBAMA SECOND TERM
AGENDA.
AND SO WHAT THEY ARE
OBVIOUSLY SAYING IS THEY ARE
MOVING AHEAD WITH THIS.
THEY MADE IT MORE COST
EFFECTIVE AND SAYING IT IS A
HUGE PUBLIC BENEFIT.
AT THE SAME TIME THE
ENVIRONMENTALISTS ARE
LOCKING AT ALL THESE OTHER
FRONTS.
AND THEY'RE SAYING, FOR
EXAMPLE, ON THE KEYSTONE
PIPELINE, THAT THEY ARE
SAYING, YOU KNOW, YES, THIS
WILL SUPPLY OIL FROM CANADA,
BUT IT'S BASICALLY A
REFERENDUM ON WHAT OBAMA
WILL DO ON CLIMATE.
SO THAT IS A VERY DIFFICULT
DECISION WILL MAKE THIS
SUMMER IT IS UNCLEAR WHETHER
HE WILL DO, WHETHER HE IS
GOING TO DISAPPOINT THE
COMMUNITY.
AND WHAT HE IS ALSO LOOKING
AT IS WHETHER THEY WILL
REGULATE BOTH GREENHOUSE-GAS
EMISSIONS FROM NEW POWER
PLANTS.
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT SHOULD
BE FINALIZED SOON, BUT MAY
NOT BE.
OR ARE THEY GOING TO
REGULATE EXISTING POWER
PLANTS IN THE FUTURE.
>> SO HOW DO YOU SEE THE
CALCULUS IN ANNOUNCING THIS
WHILE OTHERS ARE PENDING.
>> CERTAINLY THIS IS
SOMETHING BROADLY WELCOMED
BY THE ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMUNITY.
AND IT'S REALLY GOING TO BE,
WITH ONE POSSIBLE EXCEPTION,
ONE OF THE MOST SIGNIFICANT
AIR POLICY RULES THAT THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION DOES.
BUT IT'S NOT GOING TO MAKE
UP FOR, FOR EXAMPLE, IF THEY
DECIDE TO ALLOW THE KEYSTONE
PIPELINE TO GO THROUGH.
THAT AND REGULATING EXISTING
POWER PLANTS, THOSE ARE THE
TWO BIGGEST LITMUS TESTS FOR
ITS O BACK-- OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION THIS TERM.
>> AND TO BE CLEAR, THESE
ARE PROPOSALS, BUT IS IT
EXPECTED THEY WILL TAKE
EFFECT.
>> YES, THEY HAVEN'T
OUTLINED THE TIME LINE, FOR
EXAMPLE.
THE RULES THAT WERE UNVEILED
TODAY COULD TAKE A FEW
MONTHS.
THEY ARE PROPOSED RULE BUS
THERE IS AN EXPECTATION THAT
SINCE THEY HAVE ALREADY DONE
SOME EXPECTATIONS, THE FINAL
RULE THAT WILL BE ADOPTED IN
A MATTER OF MONTHS WILL BE
SIMILAR TO WHAT WE ARE
SEEING TODAY.
>> JULIET EILPERIN, "THE
WASHINGTON POST," THANK YOU
SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> Suarez: NOW, TO THE BATTLE
FOR BENEFITS FOR SERVICEMEN AND
WOMEN AFTER THEY RETURN HOME.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS CALLED
CARING FOR VETERANS A TOP
PRIORITY OF HIS ADMINISTRATION,
BUT A NEW REPORT SHOWS THAT THE
NUMBER OF MEN AND WOMEN WHO
WAITING MORE THAN A YEAR FOR
BENEFITS HAS GROWN 2,000% SINCE
2009.URN AGAIN TO HARI FOR THAT
STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: THESE IRAQ AND
AFGHANISTAN VETERANS BROUGHT
THEIR FIGHT TO CAPITOL HILL LAST
WEEK.
THEY'RE TRYING TO DRAW ATTENTION
TO THE MEDICAL BENEFITS BACKLOG
AT THE VETERANS ADMINISTRATION,
BENEFITS OWED TO THEM FOR THEIR
SERVICE.
NEARLY A QUARTER OF A MILLION
MEN AND WOMEN WHO SERVED IN THE
ARMED FORCES HAVE BEEN WAITING
MORE THAN A YEAR FOR THEIR
CLAIMS TO BE RESOLVED.
ACCORDING TO AN INVESTIGATION BY
THE CENTER FOR INVESTIGATIVE
REPORTING, BASED ON LEAKED
INTERNAL V.A. DOCUMENTS-- THE
CLAIMS PROCESSING TIME HAS GROWN
IN THE PAST FOUR YEARS, AND THE
NUMBER OF PEOPLE WAITING HAS
INCREASED.
AARON GLANTZ HAS WRITTEN
EXTENSIVELY ABOUT THE VAS
PROBLEMS AND UNCOVERED THE
STORY.
>> THE MOST CONSISTENT THING
THAT I HEAR IS THAT I CAME HOME
AND THE COUNTRY DOESN'T CARE AND
THE GOVERNMENT IS MAKING ME WAIT
FAR TOO LONG FOR MY BENEFITS.
AND THEN IF YOU HAVE A TRAUMATIC
BRAIN INJURY OR P.T.S.D. OR ONE
OF THESE OTHER CONDITIONS,
YOU'RE DEALING WITH IT ON YOUR
OWN.
>> Sreenivasan: IN 2009, ELEVEN
THOUSAND VETERANS WERE WAITING
MORE THAN A YEAR FOR BENEFITS.
LAST YEAR, THAT FIGURE WAS
245,000, A MORE THAN TWENTY-FOLD
INCREASE, NUMBERS THE V.A.
CONFIRMS.
GLANTZ'S REPORT ALSO SHOWED THAT
IN URBAN AREAS, LIKE NEW YORK
CITY, THE AVERAGE TIME TO HAVE A
CLAIM PROCESSED IS 642 DAYS.
WE SAT DOWN WITH THREE VETERANS
OF THE IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN WARS
WHO ARE FRUSTRATED WITH THE
DELAYS.
>> MY NAME IS RACHEL McNEILL,
I WAS A SERGEANT IN THE ARMY AND
I WAS MEDICALLY RETIRED IN 2010,
THE MOST RECENT NOTICE OF
DISAGREEMENT THAT THE V.A.
ACKNOWLEDGED WAS OVER 800 DAYS
AGO.
>> Sreenivasan: SERGEANT McNEILL
HAD RESPIRATORAILMY ENTS FROM A
TOUR IN IRAQ.
>> MY NAME IS AARON THORSON.
I WAS A CAPTAIN IN THE ARMY
UNTIL 2011 WHEN I EXITED OUT,
TRANSITIONED INTO CIVILIAN LIFE.
I WAITED 405 DAYS FOR MY
DISABILITY CLAIM TO GO THROUGH.
>> Sreenivasan: CAPTAIN THORSSON
WAS A HELICOPTER PILOT IN
AFGHANISTAN WHO SUFFERS FROM A
CRUSHED DISC IN HIS BACK, A
COMMON INJURY AMONG COMBAT
PILOTS.
>> I'M ZAC McELWAYNE.
I WAS IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY,
I WAS A STAFF SERGEANT.
I DEPLOYED IN IRAQ IN 2005, OR
2006, AND 2009.
WHEN I GOT BACK, I FILED MY
CLAIMS, AND YESTERDAY WAS MY DAY
908.
>> Sreenivasan: STAFF SERGEANT
McELWAYNE SUSTAINED A HAND
INJURY DURING HIS TIME IN THE
ARMY.
THE AVERAGE TIME FOR THE
RESOLUTION OF A DISABILITY CLAIM
IS 279 DAYS.
FIRST TIME CLAIMS CAN TAKE EVEN
LONGER, AVERAGING 318 DAYS,
LEAVING VETERANS TO PAY FOR
EXPENSES ON THEIR OWN IN THE
MEANTIME.
THESE VETERANS SAY THEIR
INTERACTIONS WITH THE VA
INCLUDED DIFFICULTY FINDING
SOMEONE TO TALK TO, LOST
PAPERWORK AND A SLOW
UNRESPONSIVE BUREAUCRACY.
>> IT'S REALLY HARD TO FIND
SOMEONE TO ACTUALLY TALK TO.
YOU KNOW, I SPENT A LOT OF TIME
ON HOLD.
YOU KNOW, I CAN'T EVEN, I CAN'T
EVEN IMAGINE HOW MANY HOURS OF
MY LIFE I'VE ACTUALLY SPENT ON
HOLD AT THE V.A.
I'LL BE, YOU KNOW, THEY'LL PASS
YOU AROUND TO DIFFERENT
DEPARTMENTS, AND NOBODY CAN HELP
YOU, AND YOU KNOW, THEN YOU'LL
GET HUNG UP ON BECAUSE THEY,
SOMEBODY JUST DROPS YOUR CALL.
YOU KNOW IT'S JUST A TOTALLY
INCOHERENT PROCESS.
>> THEY KEPT LOSING MY MEDICAL
DOCUMENTATION.
I KEPT HANDING IT OFF TO THEM,
AND SOMEBODY WOULD LOSE IT.
AND THEN, IN FACT, ONE OF MY
CLAIMS WAS DENIED BECAUSE, EVEN
THOUGH I'D HANDED IN THE
PAPERWORK, THEY LOST IT AND
DENIED MY CLAIM FOR FAILURE OF
RECEIPT OF PAPERWORK.
>> YOU KNOW I EXPECTED WITHIN A
>> Sreenasaniv: RETIRED FOUR-
STAR GENERAL ERIC SHINSEKI  WAS
APPOINTED CABINET SECRETARY FOR
THE VETERANS AFFAIRS
ADMINISTRATION IN 2009.
HE SAYS A BIG PART OF THE
BACKLOG IS BECAUSE THE V.A.
BEGAN MAKING IT EASIER FOR
VETERANS FROM PREVIOUS WARS TO
CLAIM BENEFITS FROM THE SIDE
EFFECTS OF AGENT ORANGE AND GULF
WAR SYNDROME.
>> WE ADDED TO OUR WORKLOAD A
BIT, BECAUSE THREE YEARS AGO WE
DECIDED TO TAKE CARE OF SOME
UNFINISHED BUSINESS: AGENT
ORANGE FOR VIETNAM VETERANS, FOR
GULF VETERANS, GULF WAR
DISEASES, NINE DISEASES IN 20
YEARS HAD NEVER BEEN ADDRESSED.
>> Sreenivasan: REPORTER AARON
GLANTZ:
>> YEAH, I THINK THERE IS SOME
MERIT TO THAT, BUT IT'S NOT THE
COMPLETE ANSWER.
THEY HAVE HAD A 50% INCREASE IN
THE NUMBER OF VETERANS FILING
CLAIMS DURING THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION.
ON THE OTHER HAND, AS I
MENTIONED, THE NUMBER OF
VETERANS WAITING MORE THAN A
YEAR HAS INCREASED BY MORE THAN
2,000%.
AND THE OVERALL WAITING LIST HAS
MORE THAN DOUBLED.
SO, IT'S NOT JUST THAT MORE
PEOPLE ARE FILING CLAIMS OR THAT
MORE PEOPLE ARE FILING MORE
COMPLICATED CLAIMS, IT'S ALSO
THAT THE REFORMS THAT THEY'VE
PUT IN PLACE TO DEAL WITH THIS,
HAVE NOT WORKED.
>> Sreenivasan: THE VETERANS WE
SPOKE TO ARE PART OF THAT
WAITING LIST AND FEEL LIKE THEY
HAVE TO KEEP FIGHTING EVEN AFTER
RETURNING HOME.
>> SO WE SPOKE TO A COUPLE OF
VETERANS WHO CAME BY OUR STUDIO
YESTERDAY AND JUST ABOUT A
MINUTE LONG, I TOLD THEM IF I
WERE TO SIT IN YOUR OFFICE I
WOULD CARRY THEIR MESSAGE.
IT'S FAIRLY SIMPLE.
>> WHEN I VOLUNTEERED TO DO
CONFLICT SECURITY OR WHEN I KNEW
SOMETHING COULD HAPPEN, I DID
THAT WITH THE FAITH THAT IF
ANYTHING HAPPENED TO ME ID BE
TAKEN CARE OF.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU FEEL LEFT
BEHIND?
>> YEAH, WHY SHOULD YOU HAVE TO
FIGHT?
WHY SHOULD YOU HAVE TO FIGHT FOR
YOUR BENEFITS?
I WENT TO WAR, I DID WHAT I HAD
TO DO.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT DO YOU SAY
TO THESE VETERANS?
>> THERE IS NO REASON WHY
VETERANS SHOULD HAVE TO WAIT AS
THESE VETERANS ARE OBVIOUSLY
CONFINED, BUT WE ARE HERE TO
SOLVE THIS PROBLEM.
FOUR YEARS AGO AS I SAID THERE
WAS NO PLAN, WE HAVE A PLAN
TODAY AND WE ARE IN THE MIDST OF
FIELDING THIS.
I WOULD ALSO SAY THAT IN THIS
I THINK 260,000 CLAIMS WERE
ADDED TO OUR INVENTORY JUST
BECAUSE OF THAT ONE DECISION
ALONE ON THE AGENT ORANGE AND
YOU CAN ADD TO THAT GULF WAR
ILLNESS AND COMBAT P.T.S.D.
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF CLAIMS
ADDED TO A PAPER PROCESS, WE
THOUGHT THAT WAS THE RIGHT THING
TO DO.
>> Sreenivasan: SOME OF THE
VETERANS WE SPOKE WITH, SOME OF
THE KEY THINGS THAT THEY'VE
LEARNED IN THE MILITARY IS
FAILING TO PLAN IS PLANNING TO
FAIL.
YOU KNEW THIS WAS COMING,
CONGRESS HAS BEEN LOBBYING FOR
TEN YEARS TO TRY TO INCORPORATE
THESE GROUPS OF VETERANS IN.
WAS THERE A SYSTEMATIC FAILURE
TO PLAN FOR THIS INFLUX OF
VETERANS?
>> WELL, TEN YEARS OF WAR AND
THE REQUIREMENTS HAVE GROWN.
WE'RE IN PAPER, AND FOUR YEARS
AGO THERE WAS NO PLAN TO COME
OUT OF PAPER AND TO GO INTO
ELECTRONIC.
THAT PLAN IS IN PLACE.
>> THE V.A. LOVES TO TALK ABOUT
HOW THEY'RE COMPUTERIZING THIS
PROCESS.
>> Sreenivasan: GLANTZ SAYS THE
PLANS ARE INSUFFICIENT AND THAT
THE SYSTEM IS STILL BUCKLING
UNDER A MOUNTAIN OF PAPERWORK.
>> THE INTERNAL DOCUMENTS WE'VE
OBTAINED FROM THE VA, THEY SHOW
THAT AS OF JANUARY, 97% OF
CLAIMS WERE STILL ON PAPER.
THIS IS AFTER A FOUR YEAR, HALF
BILLION DOLLAR EFFORT.
LAST AUGUST THE V.A.s OWN
INSPECTOR GENERAL FOUND THAT
THERE WERE SO MANY PAPER FILE
FOLDERS AT THE V.A. OFFICE IN
NORTH CAROLINA THAT IT WAS
DAMAGING THE STRUCTURAL
INTEGRITY OF THE BUILDING.
>> Sreenivasan: MEANWHILE, FOR
SOME VETERANS THE WAIT HAS
ALREADY TAKEN A TOLL.
DID ANY OF YOU FEEL LIKE GIVING
UP?
>> I HAD MOMENTS WHERE I JUST
DIDN'T SEE AN END.
I DIDN'T SEE AN END STATE.
THERE WAS NO I WAS GOING TO GET
THROUGH THIS, AS FAR AS BEING
ABLE TO MOVE FORWARD.
I DON'T THINK I EVER, I WAS
NEVER REALLY GOING TO FOLLOW
THROUGH, BUT I HAD MY MOMENTS
WHERE I WAS IN A DARK PLACE
TRYING TO FIND, SEEK RESOLUTION.
IT'S HARD TO TALK ABOUT AND IT'S
HARD TO ADMIT TO, BUT YEAH I HAD
MY MOMENTS WHERE I QUESTIONED
WHAT KIND OF FUTURE I WOULD
HAVE.
>> Sreenivasan: THESE VETERANS
STRESS THE URGENCY OF A
SOLUTION.
>> YEAH, THERE'S NO TIME.
AND WE CAN'T AFFORD FOR THIS TO
CONTINUE TO HAPPEN.
THERE'S 22 VETERAN SUICIDES
EVERY DAY AND THERE'S PEOPLE OUT
THERE THAT NEED HELP.
>> Sreenivasan: SO WHO DO YOU
THINK IS RESPONSIBLE FOR WHERE
WE ARE TODAY AND THE
FRUSTRATIONS THAT SO MANY OF
THESE VETERANS ARE FACING?
>> WELL, AGAIN, THE PRESIDENT
WAS VERY CLEAR WHEN I ARRIVED
FOUR YEARS AGO THAT HE WANTS
THIS FIXED.
HE HAS GIVEN US THE RESOURCES, A
40% INCREASE, SO YOU'RE SPEAKING
TO THE INDIVIDUAL WHO HAS THAT
RESPONSIBILITY.
>> Sreenivasan: THE BUCK STOPS
WITH YOU?
>> THE BUCK STOPS RIGHT HERE.
>> Sreenivasan: WHILE THIS GROUP
OF FORMER SERVICE MEMBERS DID
NOT HOLD THE SECRETARY
PERSONALLY RESPONSIBLE, THEY ARE
PUSHING FOR A PRESIDENTIAL
COMMISSION TO FIGURE OUT
SOLUTIONS TO WHAT THEY CONSIDER
A BROKEN SYSTEM.
>> Woodruff: ONLINE YOU CAN SEE
MORE FROM HARI'S INTERVIEWS WITH
THE VETERANS AND V.A. SECRETARY
SHINSEKI.
LOVE, LIFE AND THE QUEST FOR
SUCCESS IN A MODERN METROPOLIS.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR BOOK
CONVERSATION.
>> A POOR BOY FROM A RURAL
VILLAGE COMES TO A SPRAWLING,
WILD, SOMETIMES VIOLENT CITY
AND STRUGGLES, SUCCEEDS,
MAKES AND LOSES A FORTUNE.
THAT'S THE OUTLINE OF A NEW
NOVEL SET IN AN UNNAMED
COUNTRY, VERY MUCH LIKE
PAKISTAN, THAT ONE TOLD IN
THE FORM OF A SELF-HELP
BOOK.
IT'S TITLED "HOW TO GET
FILTHY RICH IN RISING ASIA"
AUTHOR MOHSIN HAMID GREW UP
IN AND LIVES NOW IN LAHORE,
PACK STONE.
IN BETWEEN HE ALSO LIVED AND
STUDIED IN THE UNITED
STATES.
AND WELCOME TO YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> FIRST WE SHOULD ADDRESS
THIS GREAT TITLE AND THE
IDEA OF WRITING A BOOK AS A
SELF-SELF-HELP BOOK.
WHY THAT APPROACH?
>> WELL, IT STARTED AS A
JOKE.
I WAS WITH A FRIEND.
AND WE STARTED TALKING ABOUT
NOVELLS FEELING LIKE HARD
WORK SOMETIMES AS A READER.
AND THAT MAYBE IT WAS LIKE
SELF-HELP FOR US TO READ IT.
>> FOR YOU.
>> YEAH, FOR US AS READERS
AND ALSO AS WRITERS TO WRITE
THEM.
AND THE MORE I THOUGHT ABOUT
THAT, THE MORE IT SELL SOED
THERE WAS SOME TRUTH IN
THAT.
THAT ACTUALLY MAYBE I DO
WRITE NOVELS AS SELF-HELP.
AND MAYBE I EVEN READ THEM
PARTLY FOR SELF-HELP.
SO IT STARTED AS A JOKE,
BECAME KIND OF AN EARNEST
APPROACH TO THINKING ABOUT
THE NOVEL.
>> AND I ASSUMED THAT IT
ALSO WAS TAPPING INTO WHAT
MANY PEOPLE READ, RIGHT?
I MEAN ESPECIALLY I THINK IN
THE COUNTRIES YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT, SORT OF HOW TO
SUCCEED.
EVERYBODY IS TRYING TO
FIGURE THAT OUT.
>> WE'RE SURROUNDED BY
SELF-HELP.
IF YOU WALK INTO A BOOK SHOP
IN PAKISTAN OR REALLY
ANYWHERE IN ASIA YOU WILL
SEE SHELF AFTER SHELF, HOW
TO BECOME SUCCESSFUL, HOW TO
DO A SPREADSHEET, HOW TO
GIVE A GOOD JOB INTERVIEW
AND NEWSPAPERS AND MAGAZINES
ARE FULL OF IT TOO.
I THINK THERE IS A BARRAGE
OF SELF-HELP HITTING US ALL
THE TIME.
>> THE PROTAGONIST IS
UNNAMED.
IN THAT LIGHT HE BECOMES A
KIND OF EVERY MAN SORT OF
STRIVING, RIGHT.
AND IT LOOKS AS THOUGH YOU
REALLY WANTED TO USE THIS
INDIVIDUAL LIFE TO TK THAT
EL SOME VERY, VERY BIG
QUESTIONS, OF A CHANGING
SOCIETY.
MIGRATION, FOR EXAMPLE, FROM
RURAL TO THE CITY.
IS THAT FAIR?
THAT YOU WERE TRYING TO LOOK
THE A ALL THAT?
>> YEAH, I THINK SO I MEAN I
WANTED TO LOOK AT A BILLING
KANSAS-- CANVAS AND IN
PARTICULAR THE MOVEMENT OF
BILLIONS OF PEOPLE FROM THE
WORLD'S VILLAGES TO THE
CITIES.
>> BILLIONS.
>> IT IS BILLIONS BECAUSE
SOMETHING LIKE HALF THE
WORLD'S PEOPLE NOW LIVE IN
CITIES AND IT WILL BE MORE
LIKE 90% IN ANOTHER 20, 30
YEARS.
AND THAT MEANS BILLIONS OF
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO MOVE.
MY CITY LAHORE IS 10 MILLION
PEOPLE.
WHEN I WAS BORN 41 YEARS AGO
IT HAD 1 MILLION PEOPLE.
SO IT IS NOW NEW YORK SIZE
AND IT USED TO BE A MUCH
SMALLER TOWN.
SO I WANTED TO TALK ABOUT
THAT HUGE SHIFT IN THE HUMAN
POPULATION ALL OVER THE
WORLD.
AND NOT JUST IN PAKISTAN,
BUT EQUALLY IN MEXICO CITY
AND BANGKOK.
>> AND THE SHIFT, OF COURSE,
IS A KIND OF RISING
AFFLUENCE WHICH IS WHAT YOU
ARE TALKING ABOUT, GETTING
FILTHY RICH OR AT LEAST
RISING OUT OF THE RURAL
POVERTY.
BUT STILL ALL KINDS OF
PROBLEMS AT THE SAME TIME
AND RIGIDITIES WITHIN THE
SOCIETY.
>> WELL, THERE ARE ALL KINDS
OF PROBLEMS IN TERMS OF WHAT
YOU HAVE TO DO TO RISE UP.
IT ISN'T EASY OBVIOUSLY AND
MANY PEOPLE DON'T MAKE IT
EVEN THOUGH THE MIDDLE CLASS
IS SWELLING BY MILLIONS AND
MILLIONS OF PEOPLE.
BUT THE OTHER THING THAT IS
CUTTING AGAINST IT IS THIS
SORT OF MARKET NARRATIVE OF
GROWTH.
MORE MONEY, MORE CARS, A
BIGGER HOME, IS ONLY HALF OF
THE HUMAN STORY.
BECAUSE THE OTHER PART OF
THE HUMAN STORY IS LOSS.
YOU GET ALL THE-- WE GET
MORE FRAGILE, WE LOSE
EVERYBODY WE LOVED AND
EVENTUALLY WE LOSE OUR
LIVES.
AND THAT SIDE OF THE STORY,
HOW TO DEAL WITH LOSS IS
SOMETHING THAT THIS BIGxU&
ECONOMIC BOOM ISN'T
EQUIPPING US FOR AND I THINK
CREATES A LOT OF TENSION.
>> THIS SELF-HELP BOOK IS
NOT WRITTEN FOR THAT ONE T
IS FOR THE WAY UP.
>> INTERESTINGLY I THINK
THIS SELF-HELP BOOK IS
ACTUALLY INTENDED FOR THAT
ONE.
>> I SEE THAT.
WELL, IT'S INTERESTING,
BECAUSE EVERY TITLE IS A
KIND OF PIECE OF ADVICE.
AND IT STARTS WITH MOVE TO
THE CITY.
GET AN EDUCATION.
DON'T FALL IN LOVE WHICH
YOUR PROTAGONIST DOES NOT
LISTEN TO THAT ONEMENT BUT
THEN IT BECOMES THIS SORT OF
DARKER, AVOID IDEALISTS
WHICH BRINGS IN THE NOTION
OF RELIGIOUS, BEFRIEND A
BUREAUCRAT, THE CORE ROPTION
IN SOCIETY, AND FILLYNA BE
PREPARED TO USE VIOLENCE.
SO THERE IS A DARKER SIDE
HERE.
>> THERE IS I THINK, YOU
KNOW, I THINK THE MARKET IS
A BRUTAL THING.
IT'S, YOU KNOW, THE LAW OF
THE JUNGLE WITH AM SO RULES.
AND IN A PLACE LIKE PAKISTAN
OR MUCH OF THE WORLD, REALLY,
WHERE THOSE RULES ARE PRETTY
FLIMSY AND LOOSELY ENFORCED,
IT'S OFTEN THE VIOLENCE AND
CORRUPT EXPERIENCE TRYING TO
MAKE IT UP.
>> I READ ONE OF YOUR
PREVIOUS NOVELS, THE
RELUCTANT FUNDAMENTALIST AND
NOW THIS.
YOUR BOOK AND OTHER BOOKS
HELP ME UNDERSTAND WHAT'S
GOING ON IN COUNTRIES THAT
WE OFTEN MORE ON OUR PROGRAM
ARE LOOKING AT THROUGH
TERRORISM AND ALL KINDS OF
BAD THINGS.
BUT I WONDER FOR YOU AS A
WRITER, DO YOU FEEL A SENSE
OF MISSION IF THAT'S THE
WORD, TO TRY TO TELL REST OF
THE WORLD WHAT'S GOING ON IN
YOUR SOCIETY?
>> WELL, IT'S LESS THAN I'M
TRYING TO TELL THE REST OF
THE WORLD BUT MORE I'M
TRYING TO FIGURE IT OUT
MYSELF.
SO I'M EQUALLY CONFUSED BY
WHAT IS GOING ON.
SO THIS NOVEL IS TRYING TO
CHART ALL THE DIFFERENT
PHASES THAT PEOPLE MOVE FROM
ABSOLUTE POVERTY AND UP TO
WEALTH AND WHAT IT TAKES.
AND WHAT IT MIGHT FEEL LIKE,
WAS AN ATTEMPT, I THINK AS A
WRITER, TO MAKE SENSE OF
THIS WORLD I'M SEEING AROUND
ME.
>> AND WITHOUT GIVING AWAY
THE ENDING HERE, BUT AFTER
THE TRIALS AND LOSSES THAT
YOU ARE REFERRING TO, THERE
IS A KIND OF OPEN HAPPINESS,
EVEN IF IT'S NOT OF THE
FILTHY RICH KIND.
>> YEAH.
>> WELL, GO AHEAD IS THAT
WHAT YOU WERE STRIVING FOR
TOO?
>> YEAH, BECAUSE THE IDEA IS
THAT IT IS POSSIBLE TO FIND
A CERTAIN DEGREE OF RELEASE
OR CONTENTMENT IN LIFE.
AND THAT YOU KNOW DESPITE
SORT OF THE CYNICAL NATION
OF A LOT OF OUR ART AND
LITERATURE AND CULTURE, THAT
EFFORT ISSUED REMAIN PART OF,
AT LEAST FOR ME, MY PROJECT
AS A WRITER TO TRY TO FIND
THAT FOR MYSELF AND TO TRY
TO FIND THAT-- IT'S EASY TO
FIND A NOVEL SORT OF IN
SORROW AND IT BE A GOOD
LITERARY WORK.
HAVING IT END WITH A DEGREE
OF HAPPINESS AND NOT BE A
CLICHE IS HARDER.
SO ONLY MY THIRD NOVEL DID I
HAVE THE GUTS TO TRY DOING
THAT.
>> THAT IS TRUE YOU ARE
SAYING EVEN IN A PLACE THAT
IS RIFE WALL KINDS OF
PROBLEMS THAT, AS I SAID, WE
REPORT ON ALL THE TIME.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
BECAUSE I THINK THAT
ACTUALLY IF YOU, THE ATTEMPT
TO FIND SOME HUMAN
CONNECTION, TO FIND SOME
EMPATHY, TO FIND SOME WAY OF
GOING BEYOND YOURSELF IS
ACTUALLY CONNECTED TO ALL
THOSE PROBLEMS AS WELL.
BECAUSE THOSE PROBLEMS THAT
YOU REFERRED TO, TERRORISM,
VIOLENCE, ET CETERA, COME IN
PARTS FROM A RAMPANT STATE
OF DEPRESSION AND MENTAL
ILLNESS THAT IS SET IN AS
PEOPLE HAVE LOST TRADITIONAL
WAYS OF LOOKING AT THE WORLD
AND DON'T HAVE ANYTHING TO
REPLACE THEM WITH.
>> HOW TO GET FILTHY RICH IN
RISING ASIA.
MOHSIN HAMID, NICE TO TALK
TO YOU, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Suarez: FIND JEFF'S EXTRA
QUESTIONS AND HAMID'S ANSWERS ON
ART BEAT.
ALSO THERE, HAMID READS AN
EXCERPT FROM HIS BOOK.
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS,
SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND "NEW YORK TIMES"
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS, WHO IS
IN NEW YORK TONIGHT.
TONIGHT, GENTLEMEN, WELCOME.
>> JUDY.
>> SO MARK, ALL EYES THIS
WEEK ON THE SUPREME COURT.
TWO CASES, ALL EYES ON SAME
SEX MARRIAGE.
TWO SETS OF ARGUMENTS.
WHAT DO YOU SEE THE ROLE OF
PUBLIC OPINION?
ALL OF THIS?
>> WELL, MR. -- SAID THE
SUPREME COURT FOLLOWS THE
ELECTION RETURNS.
AND IFS THAT EAT CASE,UVER SEENE
MOVE WITH THIS KIND OF
VELOCITY.
JUST THINK ABOUT THIS.
TWO SHORT PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTIONS AGO THE REPUBLICANS
ACE IN THE HOLE WAS TO PUT
11 BALLOT QUOS IN DIFFERENT
STATE OS POSING SAME SEX
MARRIAGE IN HOPES OF TURNING
OUT RELIGIOUSLY CONSERVATIVE
VOTERS, WHO WOULD VOTE THEN
FOR PRESIDENT BUSH.
IS CONVENTIONAL WISDOM IS
THAT OHIO, WHERE ONE OF THE
BALLOT ISSUES WAS ON, THAT
WAS THE KEY TO TURNING THE
STATE FROM JOHN KERRY THE
DEMOCRAT AND THE WHITE HOUSE
FROM JOHN KERRY, THE
DEMOCRAT TO GEORGE W. BUSH
THE REPUBLICAN.
IT WAS 60 TO 29 AMERICANS
OPPOSED SAME SEX MARRIAGE,
ALL THE INTENSITY, ALL THE
PASSION.
THAT HAS DONE A TOTAL
COMPLETE TURN.
IF YOU WANT TO SEE IT
CRYSTALLIZED, LESS THAN A
YEAR AGO THE PRESIDENT OF
THE UNITED STATES, A LIBERAL
DEMOCRATIC UNITED STATES
PRESIDENT SAID HE WAS IN
FAVOR OF CIVIL UNIONS.
TODAY THAT IS NOW THE SAFE
HARBOR POLITICAL POSITION
FOR REPUBLICANS.
THAT'S HOW QUICKLY IT'S
CHANGED.
AND THE PRESIDENT, OF COURSE
S AN ADVOCATE OF SAME SEX
MARRIAGE HAVING COME TO THAT
POSITION AFTER HIS VICE
PRESIDENT TOOK IT FIRST.
>> SO DAVID, WHY HAS THIS
CHANGE HAPPENED SO FAST?
>> BECAUSE IT'S ABOUT
OBLIGATIONS.
WE HAVE A LANGUAGE IN THIS
COUNTRY THAT WE HAVE BECOME
ACCUSTOMED TO WHICH SAY
LANGUAGE OF RIGHTS AND
FREEDOM.
BUT GAY MARRIAGE, AND
MARRIAGE IN GENERAL IS NOT
ABOUT RIGHTS AND FREEDOM,
IT'S ABOUT LIMITING YOUR
FREEDOM GOING INTO A
RELATIONSHIP WHICH LIMIT
IT'S THE CONTINGENCY OF YOUR
RELATIONSHIP, LIMITS YOUR
ABILITY TO CHOOSE AND BE
FREE.
IT'S ABOUT CREATING A SET OF
OBLIGATIONS.
AND I THINK MOST AMERICANS
DO BELIEVE THAT LIFE IS BEST
LIVED WITHIN A SERIES OF
RELATIONSHIPS THAT ARE
REASONABLY FIRM AND FIXED.
AND ONCE GAY AND LESBIAN
ISSUES BECAME ABOUT MARRIAGE,
ONCE IT BECAME ABOUT FIXING
YOURSELF DOWN IN A PERMANENT
RELATIONSHIP, THEN THAT WAS
GOING TO BE SOMETHING THAT
WAS GOING TO APPEAL TO A LOT
OF PEOPLE.
AND A LOT OF AMERICANS HAD
THE MISTAKEN NOTION THAT THE
GAY LIFE WAS ABOUT BATH
HOUSE CULTURE AND GAY BARS.
AND I THINK THAT HELD THEM
BACK.
BUT ONCE IT BECAME CLEAR
THAT WHAT GAYS AND LESBIANS,
WHAT A LOT OF THEM WANTED
WAS MARRIAGE WAS A PRETTY
BOURGIA,-- BOURGE WHAT MAIN
TEAM INSTITUTION, THE DOOR
WAS SWUNG OPEN AND NO
TURNING BACK.
>> SO OVER TIME PUBLIC
OPINION HAS SHIFTED B INUT
THE COURSE OF 1 WEEK YOU HAD
WHAT, HALF A DOZEN
DEMOCRATIC SENATORS
ANNOUNCING A CHANGE OF
HEART.
>> YEAH, THAT IT REMINDED ME
OF THE OLD FRENCH GENERAL
WHO SAID THERE GO MY PEOPLE.
I MUST FOLLOW THEM FOR I AM
THEIR LEADER.
I MEAN IT'S JUST-- COMES
DOWN TO THAT.
THERE WAS A REAL, BEEN A
REAL SWITCH, JUDY.
NOW SOME OF THEM, INDIVIDUAL
CASES AND INDIVIDUAL REASONS
WHY PEOPLE CHANGE.
AND THEIR CONSCIENCE
OBVIOUSLY A PART OF IT BUT
TWO OF THEM WERE JUST
RE-ELECTED, JOHN TESTER IN
MONTANA AND CLAIRE McCASKILL
IN MISSOURI.
THEY HAVE SIX YEAR, HISTORY
ON THEIR SIDE, MOMENTUM,
SEEMINGLY.
THE ONE ABERRATION IN THAT
WHOLE CROWD IS KAY HAGEN, A
FIRST TERM DEMOCRATIC
SENATOR FROM NORTH CAR A.
SHE'S GOT A TOUGH RACE.
THE REPUBLICANS ARE OUT TO
GET HER, IN A STATE THAT
BARACK OBAMA CARRIED BY
14,000 VOTES IN 2008.
AND THEN THE ONLY
BATTLEGROUND STATE HE LOST
IN 2012.
AND HER OWN STATE WAS A
REFERENDUM QUESTION IN MAY
OF 2012, 61% VOTED AGAINST
SAIL SEX MARRIAGE.
SHE CAME OUT FOR IT.
SO THIS WILL BE THE LITMUS
TEST.
IF SHE WINS AND WITH THE
SUPPORT OF PEOPLE WHO
BELIEVE IN SAME SEX MARRIAGE,
AND I THINK DAVID IS
ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
I MEAN THE ONLY PEOPLE WHO
WANT TO GET MARRIED IN THIS
COUNTRY RIGHT NOW ARE GAIS
AND LESBIANS.
I MEAN IF YOU THINK ABOUT IT,
MARRIAGE, NO, SERIOUSLY,
MARRIAGE HAS DECLINED.
PEOPLE ARE WAITING LONGER,
FEWER PEOPLE GET MAR HE ODD.
AND THEY REALLY ALL THEY
REALLY WANTED WAS BASICALLY
WHAT EVERYBODY ELSE HAS.
IT WASN'T SOME SPECIAL
PRIVILEGE, A SPECIAL RIGHT
THAT THEY WERE SEEKING.
>> BUT DAVID, YOU DON'T SEE
A SIMILAR RUSH, CHANGE OF
HEART ON THE PART OF
REPUBLICANS.
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, THERE'S
BEEN SOME MOVEMENT, ROB
PORTMAN, THERE'S BEEN A LOT
OF MOVEMENT AMONG NONELECTED
REPUBLICANS, I WOULD SAY.
THERE HAS BEEN SOME MOVEMENT
AMONG ELECTED REPUBLICANS.
AND YOU KNOW, THEY'RE FROM
RED STATES AND SO THERE'S
GOING TO BE A DIFFERENCE OF
OPINION ABOUT THAT.
BUT I DO ANY ETHE ONE THING I WY
THERE HAS BEEN IF NOT
MOVEMENT ON WHAT POSITION
YOU'RE GOING TO TAKE THERE
HAS BEEN A DECLINE IN-- I DO
THINK IF YOU LOOK AT THE
VARIOUS CONSERVATIVE
ORGANIZATIONS,S THERE'S
STILL A FIRM PRO-LIFE
MOVEMENT, AND OPINION ON
ABORTION HAS NOT SHIFTED.
OPINION ON ABORTION IF
ANYTHING SHIFTED SLIGHTLY TO
THE RIGHT.
BUT THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO
REALLY WANT TO GET ENGAGED
IN THE GAY MARRIAGE ISSUE IS
JUST DOWN.
AND I THINK IF HE CPACK
MEETING THEY HAD A SPECIAL
MEET BEING TRYING TO RESIST
A SHIFT TOWARD GAY MARRIAGE
AND IT WAS VERY SPARSELY
ATTENDED.
SO I JUST THINK --
>> I DIDN'T MEAN TO
INTERRUPT, BUT DOW HEAR IN
ARGUMENT OUT THERE THAT IF
THE COURT WERE TO LEGALIZE
GAY MARRIAGE, ACROSS THE
COUNTRY, THAT THERE COULD BE
A BACKLASH.
>> I THINK THAT SAY FEAR
THAT IT BECOMES ROE V. WADE
LIKE.
AND I GUESS I HAVE THOUGHT
ABOUT THAT A LOT OVER THE
LAST WEEK AND I THINK IT
PROBABLY NOT LIKELY TO
HAPPEN.
I THINK IT'S PROBABLY THE
MOMENTUM IS SUCH THAT IF THE
COURT DID MOVE AGGRESSIVELY,
MAYBE THERE WOULD BE SOME
PUSHBACK.
BUT I THINK IT'S NOT LIKE
THE ABORTION ISSUE.
WE SHOULDN'T DRAW THAT
PARALLEL.
I THINK IT'S REALLY PRETTY
MUCH CEMENTED.
THE ONE THING I WILL SAY
ABOUT THE COURT IS TO THE
EXTENT WE CAN UNDERSTAND
WHAT THEY'RE THINKING ON THE
BASIS OF ORAL ARGUMENT, I
REALLY GOT A SENSE READING
ABOUT IT WAS THE REALLY
HESITANCY ON THE PART OF
MOST MEMBERS OF THE COURT TO
INTERFERE WITH THE FLOW OF
PUBLIC OPINION.
A REAL SENSE THAT
OPINION IS SHIFTING SO MUCH,
THEY DON'T KNOW HOW TO
INSERT THEMSELVES INTO IT
AND GIVEN THEIR DRUTHERS, A
LOT OF THEM AT LEAST,
SEVERAL OF THEM, AT LEAST,
WOULD JUST LIKE TO STAY OUT
AND ARE LOOKING FOR AN
AVENUE TO STAY OUT AND NOT
INTERFERE WITH THE FLOW.
>> HOW DO YOU SEE THAT?
>> WELL, JUDY, I THINK THAT
IT IS IRREFUTABLE THAT
ROE V. WADE REMAINS 40 YEARS
AFTER THE DECISION.
AN OPEN WOUND IN THE BODY
POLITICS OF THE UNITED
STATES.
IT IS UNRESOLVED.
THE QUESTIONS MAY BE
UNRESOLVABLE.
THEY AREN'T THE SAME AS SAME
SEX MARRIAGE.
BUT I THINK IT'S AN
ADMONITION AND WARNING TO
OUR POLITICAL SYSTEM AND OUR
JUDICIAL SYSTEM THAT IT ISTER OE
WORK OUR POLITICAL WILL
THROUGH THE LEGISLATIVE
PROCESS, THROUGH THE
POLITICAL PROCESS.
WE'RE ON OUR WAY IN THE
EARLY 70s TO REACHING STATE
LAWS.
WE'RE CHANGING ON ABORTION.
AND AS JUSTICE AGAINSTBERG
POINTED OUT, YOU KNOW, WITH
ONE FELL SWOOP, THAT SINGLE
DECISION OF THE STREAM COURT
IN ROE V. WADE THEY REPEALED
YOU WILL THE ABORTION LAWS
IN THE COUNTRY.
THEY WERE MADE ILLEGAL.
>> AND JUSTICE AGAINSTBERG
WERE TALKING ABOUT THIS, A
LIBERAL JUSTICE SAYING.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
>> THE COURT MAY HAVE MOVED
TOO QUICKLY.
>> I THINK IT DID.
AND IF REMAINS UNRESOLVED.
AND YOU KNOW, WITH POLITICAL
PUNCHING BAG BECAME RUNNING
AGAINST JUDGES, BEATING UP
JUDGES.
I MEAN, WHICH IS NOT, AGAIN,
GOOD FOR OUR SYSTEM.
AND I DON'T THINK IT'S
COMPARABLE TO BROWN VERSUS
BOARD OF EDUCATION, BECAUSE
IN BROWN VERSUS BOARD OF
EDUCATION, WE HAD A NATIONAL
ILL THAT WAS GOING
UNADDRESSED IN THE STATES
AND JURISDICTIONS IN WHICH
IT WAS A PROBLEM IN THE
1950s.
AND THEREFORE THE COURT HAD
TO INTERVENE.
>> CHANGE OF TOPIC.
GUN CONTROL LEGISLATION.
DAVID, WE ARE NOW, I GUESS,
THREE AND A HALF MONTHS PAST
SANDY HOOK, THE TERRIBLE
SHOOTING, 20 CHILDREN, 6
ADULT, NOT TO MENTION THE
OTHER MASS SHOOTINGS IN THIS
COUNTRY.
YESTERDAY THE PRESIDENT CAME
OUT AND SAID SHAME ON US IF
THERE HAS BEEN A SLOWING OF
THE MOMENTUM TO DO SOMETHING
ABOUT GUN VIOLENCE.
WHERE DO YOU SEE THAT RIGHT
NOW, THAT ISSUEMENT?
AND CONGRESS'S DISPOSITION
TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT.
>> WELL, THERE'S BEEN A
SLOWING OF MOMENTUM.
THE POLLS HAVE SHIFTED BACK
TOWARD WHERE THEY WERE
PRESANDY HOOK LEVEL.
I THINK IT'S WHY THEY
ACKNOWLEDGED IT'S THE
ASSAULT WEAPON BAN IS GONE.
THAT'S TO THE GOING TO PASS.
THE MAGAZINE CLIP LIMITATION
WHICH I THOUGHT ACTUALLY HAD
A BETTER CHANCE,
CONVENTIONAL WISDOM I GUESS
NOW IS THAT IS PROBABLY NOT
GOING ANYWHERE.
NOW THE FIGHT IS OVER THE
BACKGROUND CHECKS AND SOME
OF THE OTHER THINGS LIKE THE
GUN TRAFFICKING LAWS.
AND SO IT'S NOW DOWN TO
THAT.
AND SO I THINK WHAT'S
HAPPENED IS THE PRESIDENT, I
THINKEVEN-- I UNDERSTAND THE
HEARTFELT SPEECH HE GAVE
YESTERDAY.
BUT I THINK WHAT WAS NOT
DEVELOPED WAS A RED STATE
STRATEGY.
A STRATEGY TO WIN OVER SOME
OF THE MOMENTUM THAT EISTED
AMONG SOME REPUBLICANS BUT
ESPECIALLY AMONG RED STATE
DEMOCRATS TO TRY TO WIN THEM
OVER TO THIS, AND TO WIN
PUBLIC OPINION IN THOSE
STATES OVER TO THIS.
AND THAT IS THAT STRATEGY
WAS NEVER QUITE DEVELOPED.
AND SO FOR A LOT OF SENATORS
FROM THOSE STATES, THE
POLITICAL PRESSURE IS ON THE
OTHER SIDE.
IT'S ALL ON THE SECOND
AMENDMENT SIDE.
AND SO THAT WAS SACRIFICED.
AND I'M NOT SURE THE
PRESIDENT DID ANYTHING
YESTERDAY TO REALLY TURN
THAT AROUND.
>> WAS THAT A MISTAKE?
AND HOW WOULD YOU HAVE DONE
THAT?
>> WELL, I'M NOT SURE WHAT
DAVID IS RECOMMENDING IN THE
WAY OF A STRATEGY TO-- THE
ONLY REPUBLICAN, IT SEEMS,
THAT WAS AVAILABLE TO JOE
MARGON, DEMOCRAT FROM WEST
VIRGINIA, WHO HAS A PRO NRA
RECORD, AND WHAT WAS QUITE
PERSONALLY AND PUBLICLY
MOVED BY WHAT HAPPENED, IN
CONNECTICUT, WAS MARK
CIRCUMSTANCE OF ILLINOIS WHO
NOT REALLY SEEN AS A NRA
KIND OF REPUBLICAN.
SO I'M NOT SURE THAT WAS
AVAILABLE.
I THOUGHT YESTERDAY THAT WE
SAW THE UNSCRIPTED
PRESIDENT.
I MEAN I THOUGHT THAT WAS
REAL EMOTION COMING THROUGH,
THAT HE WAS EXPRESSING.
AND SHAME ON US IF IN FACT
IT DOES HAPPEN.
YOU KNOW, JUDY, PEOPLE SAY
THE COUNTRIES MOVE LEFT ON
SAME SEX MARRIAGE.
WE'VE MOVED RIGHT ON GUN
CONTROL.
THAT MEANS 20 YEARS AGO IN
THIS COUNTRY MORE THAN 70%
OF PEOPLE HAD STRICTER GUN
CONTROL LAWS AND THAT IS
DOWN BASICALLY IN THE 40%
RANGE NOW.
AND THE ONLY TIME WE GET A
BLIP IS AFTER A COLUMBINE OR
TUCSON, AFTER A MASS
SHOOTING AND MASS DEATH.
BUT WE HAD 154 CARTRIDGES
SPENT --
>> INFORMATION CAME OUT.
>> IN LESS THAN 5 MINUTES IN
THAT CLASSROOMS.
AND TO ME, IF YOU CAN'T MAKE
A CASE FOR MAGAZINES, I MEAN
I DON'T KNOW AT WHAT POINT,
YOU KNOW, YOU JUST SAY
REASON HAS TO PREVAIL.
>> DAVID WHAT WOULD YOU HAVE
DONE?
WHAT ARGUMENT SHOULD THE
ADMINISTRATION HAVE MADE IN
THESE RED STATES?
>> I WOULD HAVE INCLUDED THE
GUN CONTROL STUFF LIKE THE
ASSAULT WEAPONS BAN.
I MIGHT HAVE THROWN THAT OUT
BECAUSE THAT REALLY HAD NO
CHANCE BUT THE MAGAZINE
CLIPS, I WOULD HAVE INCLUDED
THAT, THE BACKGROUND CLIP.
I WOULD INCLUDED THAT IN A
BROAD ANTI-HOMICIDE AGENDA
AND THAT WOULD HAVE
HIGHLIGHTED THE THINGS WE DO
KNOW WORKS TO REDUCE
HOMICIDE.
A LOT DIFFERENT SORTS OF
POLICING.
HOLDING LOCAL POLICE
OFFICIALS ACCOUNTABLE FOR
HOMICIDE RATES IN THEIR
AREAS.
FOCUSING ON THOSE FEW PARTS
OF THE COUNTRY WHERE
HOMICIDE RATES ARE VERY HIGH,
A BROAD SERIES OF
LEGISLATION, FOR EXAMPLE, IF
YOU ARE LIVING WITH SOMEONE
WHO HAS A PSYCHIATRIC
PROBLEM, AN ILLNESS, HOLDING
YOU LEGALLY ACCOUNTABLE FOR
THEM NOT TO BE ABLE TO GET
GUNS.
MAKING IT A NORM THAT YOU
REPORT PEOPLE WHO YOU THINK
MAY HAVE SORT OF HOMICIDAL
URGES THE WAY PEOPLE ARE
REPORTING PEOPLE WHO MAY
COMMIT CHILD ABUSE.
SO I WOULD HAVE WRAPPED IT
IN A MUCH BROADER PACKAGE
EMPHASIZING SOME OF THE
POLICE STUFF WHICH PEOPLE IN
THE REPUBLICAN SIDE ARE MUCH
HAPPIER WITH.
AND I WOULD HAVE DONE THAT
BOTH FOR POLITICAL REASONS
TO WIN OVER THE RED STATE
AND SUBSTANTIVE REASONS.
BECAUSE IF THE EVIDENCE IS
REASONABLY CLEAR, A LOT OF
THE GUN CONTROL LEGISLATION
CAN DO LIMITED GOOD.
WE HAVE A LOT OF DIFFERENT
THINGS THAT CAN DO LIMITED
GOOD.
BUT WE HAVE NO THING THAT
CAN TOTALLY TRANSFORM AND DO
MAXIMUM GOOD.
SO I WOULD HAVE HAD A MUCH
BROADER AGENDA WITH A LOT OF
LITTLE THINGS THAT MAYBE CAN
CONTRIBUTE TO A SOLUTION,
BUT WHICH WE JUST DON'T HAVE
A BIG MAGIC WEAPON HERE TO
CONTROL GUN VIOLENCE.
YOU GOT TO DO A LOT OF
LITTLE THINGS ALL AT ONCE.
>> WE HAVE TO LEAVE IT
THERE.
DAVID BROOKS, MARK SHIELDS,
WE THANK YOU BOTH.
TOUGH SUBJECT.
>> THANK YOU, JUDY.
>> Suarez: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
NORTH KOREA STEPPED UP ITS
RHETORIC, AS ITS LEADER ORDERED
HIS GENERALS TO GET ROCKETS
READY TO STRIKE U.S. TARGETS.
A WHITE HOUSE SPOKESMAN
DISMISSED THE THREAT AS
BELLICOSE RHETORIC.
CHRISTIANS AROUND THE WORLD
MARKED GOOD FRIDAY,
COMMEMORATING THE CRUCIFIXION OF
JESUS.
AND A GRAND JURY IN ATLANTA
INDICTED THE CITY'S FORMER
SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENT AND 34
OTHER EDUCATORS.
THEY'RE ACCUSED OF CHEATING TO
MAKE TEST SCORES LOOK BETTER
THAN THEY WERE.
>> Woodruff: AND YOU CAN WATCH
OUR EARLIER REPORTING ON THE
CHEATING SCANDAL, ONLINE.
ALSO THERE, A SCIENCE STORY
ABOUT A COMING ONSLAUGHT FOR THE
EAST COAST THIS SPRING.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS MORE.
>> Sreenivasan: A SWARM OF
CICADAS-- AS MANY AS A MILLION
PER ACRE IN SOME AREAS-- WILL
EMERGE FROM THE GROUND IN LATE
MAY.
IF YOU LIVE BETWEEN CONNECTICUT
AND NORTH CAROLINA, YOU MAY
WITNESS THE BUGS' LOUD MATING
RITUAL.
READ MORE ON OUR SCIENCE PAGE.
34 YEARS AGO TODAY, A
PEDIATRICIAN FIRST DOCUMENTED
THE DANGERS OF EVEN THE LOWEST
FORMS OF LEAD.
THAT DISCOVERY CHANGED
ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE.
THAT'S ON OUR HEALTH PAGE.
AND ON THIS WEEK'S "NEED TO
KNOW"-- A ROUND TABLE DISCUSSION
ON ECONOMIC INEQUALITY, DEBT AND
THE ECONOMY FOUR YEARS AFTER THE
OFFICIAL END OF THE RECESSION.
FIND A LINK TO "NEED TO KNOW"
AND MUCH MORE IS ON OUR WEBSITE
newshour.pbs.org.
RAY?
>> Suarez: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON MONDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT INDIA
DEALING WITH CRIMES OF VIOLENCE
AGAINST WOMEN, AFTER THE BRUTAL
GANG RAPE OF A YOUNG MEDICAL
STUDENT.
I'M RAY SUAREZ.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
"WASHINGTON WEEK" CAN BE SEEN
LATER THIS EVENING ON MOST
PBS STATIONS.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE MONDAY EVENING.
HAVE A NICE WEEKEND.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.